Static methods and variables belong to a class rather than an instance of a class. They are associated with a class itself. Static methods and variables can also be accessed without creating an instance of a class. Static methods are commonly used for utility functions that don't depend on the state of an object, like a mathematical function like calculating the area of a triangle. Static variables are shared among all instances of a class. A common utility of static variables is sharing constants between objects.Static methods and variables belong to a class rather than an instance of a class. They are associated with a class itself. Static methods and variables can also be accessed without creating an instance of a class. Static methods are commonly used for utility functions that don't depend on the state of an object, like a mathematical function like calculating the area of a triangle. Static variables are shared among all instances of a class. A common utility of static variables is sharing constants between objects.
Static methods and variables are memory efficient as they are stored once in memory. They are also globally available, so creating objects just to access methods and variables isn't necessary. A downside is that static methods cannot access non-static methods and variables directly.

Non-static methods and variables are associated with instances of a class. They can access and modify data specific to their class. Non-static methods are usually used to perform operations that are specific to an instance of the class, like a function or method to keep track of a game score. Non-static variables hold data that is specific to each instance of the class. It is easier to think of them as variables scoped to a class or local variables. 

Non-static methods are often easier to test in isolation, as they only encapsulate specific functionalities. A disadvantage of non-static methods and variables is the increased memory usage because every instance of the class has to be stored in memory likewise the methods and variables.
